README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="icon.png" alt="Fastlane Skill Icon" width="128" height="128">
</p>

# Fastlane Skill for Claude Code

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Platform: macOS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Platform-macOS-blue.svg)](https://www.apple.com/macos/)
[![Claude Code Skill](https://img.shields.io/badge/Claude%20Code-Skill-purple.svg)](https://claude.ai/code)
[![Fastlane](https://img.shields.io/badge/Fastlane-00F200?logo=fastlane&logoColor=white)](https://fastlane.tools/)

> **From zero to App Store in natural language.** Let Claude do the heavy lifting.

## Why Fastlane?

[Fastlane](https://fastlane.tools) is the industry-standard automation tool for iOS and Android deployment, trusted by companies like Google, Uber, and Airbnb. Kudos to all the contributors who saved us from the joy of manually uploading 47 screenshots at 2am.

**What it does:**
- 🚀 Automates screenshots, beta deployment, App Store releases, and code signing
- ⏱️ Turns hours of manual work into single commands
- 🔄 Ensures consistent, reproducible releases every time

**Battle-tested:**
- 40,000+ GitHub stars
- 6,000+ forks
- 1,000+ contributors
- Used by millions of apps worldwide

## Why This Skill?

Fastlane is powerful—but **you** need to read the docs to use it correctly.

**Here, we invert this:** Claude already read the docs, knows how to use it correctly, and **you** just use the skill and profit.

| Without This Skill | With This Skill |
|--------------------|-----------------|
| Read docs for hours | Ask in plain English |
| Manually find bundle ID, team ID | Auto-detected from Xcode |
| Copy/paste config templates | Generated and customized for you |
| Debug cryptic Ruby errors | Guided troubleshooting |
| Learn Fastlane syntax | Just describe what you want |

**Key benefits:**
- 🎯 **Zero learning curve** - No Fastlane expertise required
- 🔍 **Smart introspection** - Reads your Xcode project, not you
- ✅ **Best practices built-in** - Homebrew install, proper lane structure
- 💬 **Conversational setup** - Iterate and adjust through chat

> **Note:** Currently tested for iOS/macOS targets. Android support coming soon.

## Prerequisites

- macOS with Xcode CLI tools
- [Homebrew](https://brew.sh)
- Fastlane: `brew install fastlane`

## Installation

```
/plugin marketplace add greenstevester/fastlane-skill
```
Restart Claude Code.

**Verify:** Ask Claude "What Fastlane skills do you have?"

## Usage

Navigate to your iOS/macOS project and ask Claude naturally:

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                            App Release Workflow                             │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

  ┌──────────┐    ┌──────────┐    ┌──────────┐    ┌──────────┐    ┌──────────┐
  │  SETUP   │───▶│  CERTS   │───▶│  SCREENS │───▶│   BETA   │───▶│ RELEASE  │
  └──────────┘    └──────────┘    └──────────┘    └──────────┘    └──────────┘
       │               │               │               │               │
       ▼               ▼               ▼               ▼               ▼
  "Set up         "Set up Match    "Automate       "Upload to      "Submit to
   Fastlane"       for code         App Store       TestFlight"     the App
                   signing"         screenshots"                    Store"
```

| Step | What Claude Does |
|------|------------------|
| **Setup** | Creates `Appfile`, `Fastfile`, lanes from your Xcode project |
| **Certs** | Configures Match for team certificate sharing via private Git repo |
| **Screens** | Sets up Snapshot for automated screenshots across devices/languages |
| **Beta** | Syncs certs, increments build, builds, uploads to TestFlight |
| **Release** | Submits your tested TestFlight build for App Store review |

## What You Get

| Skill | What It Does | Time Saved | Docs |
|-------|-------------|------------|------|
| `setup-fastlane` | Complete Fastlane config from Xcode project | 2-3 hours | [→](skills/setup-fastlane/SKILL.md) |
| `beta` | One command TestFlight uploads | 30 min/release | [→](skills/beta/SKILL.md) |
| `release` | App Store submission workflow | 1 hour | [→](skills/release/SKILL.md) |
| `match` | Team code signing setup | 4-6 hours | [→](skills/match/SKILL.md) |
| `snapshot` | Automated screenshots (50+ images) | 3-4 hours | [→](skills/snapshot/SKILL.md) |

## After Setup

**Fastlane** (obviously from its name) has a concept of **lanes**—automated workflows defined in your `Fastfile`. Each lane bundles multiple actions into a single command:

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  Lane: "beta"                                                   │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  ┌─────────┐   ┌─────────┐   ┌─────────┐   ┌─────────┐        │
│  │  sync   │──▶│increment│──▶│  build  │──▶│ upload  │        │
│  │  certs  │   │ version │   │   app   │   │TestFlight│       │
│  └─────────┘   └─────────┘   └─────────┘   └─────────┘        │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                              ▲
                              │
                    fastlane ios beta   ◀── One command runs all steps
```

**Run your lanes:**
```bash
fastlane lanes              # See all available lanes
fastlane ios test           # Run tests
fastlane ios beta           # Upload to TestFlight
fastlane ios release        # Submit to App Store
```

**Manage metadata:**
```bash
fastlane deliver download_metadata
fastlane deliver download_screenshots
```

## Update

```
/plugin marketplace update fastlane-skill
```

## Troubleshooting

| Issue | Fix |
|-------|-----|
| Skills not loading | Restart Claude Code after install |
| No Xcode project | Run from directory with `.xcodeproj` or `.xcworkspace` |
| Code signing errors | Ask Claude: "Set up Match for code signing" |

## Local Development

```bash
claude --plugin-dir /path/to/fastlane-skill
```

## License

MIT - [github.com/greenstevester/fastlane-skill](https://github.com/greenstevester/fastlane-skill)

Commit message:

updated readme with more clarification of why use it

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="icon.png" alt="Fastlane Skill Icon" width="128" height="128">
</p>

# Fastlane Skill for Claude Code

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Platform: macOS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Platform-macOS-blue.svg)](https://www.apple.com/macos/)
[![Claude Code Skill](https://img.shields.io/badge/Claude%20Code-Skill-purple.svg)](https://claude.ai/code)
[![Fastlane](https://img.shields.io/badge/Fastlane-00F200?logo=fastlane&logoColor=white)](https://fastlane.tools/)

> **From zero to App Store in natural language.** Let Claude do the heavy lifting.

## Why Fastlane?

[Fastlane](https://fastlane.tools) is the industry-standard automation tool for iOS and Android deployment, trusted by companies like Google, Uber, and Airbnb.

**Fastlane:**
- Automates screenshots, beta deployment, App Store releases, and code signing
- Turns hours of manual work into single commands
- Ensures consistent, reproducible releases every time
- 40,000+ GitHub stars
- 6,000+ forks
- 1,000+ contributors
- Used by millions of apps worldwide

_Before Fastlane, releasing an app to Apple was like trying to get through airport security with a bottle of water and a sense of optimism. I can only imagine that everyone who contributed to Fastlane, were also wondering why Apple thought uploading 47 screenshots in 12 languages by hand, was somehow an elegantly designed "dev-friendly" workflow. I wish Jonny Ive was also involved in the engine room on software development life-cycles, where he would have shouted down the maze of activities needed to just ship a new version of your app._

Anyway, BIG Kudos to all the Fastlane [contributors](https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane/graphs/contributors) tho, who saved us all from the joy of manually uploading screenshots at 2am.

## Why This Skill?

Fastlane is powerful—but **you** need to read the docs to use it correctly.

**Here, we invert this:** Claude already read the docs, knows how to use it correctly, and **you** just use the skill and profit.

| Without This Skill | With This Skill |
|--------------------|-----------------|
| Read docs for hours | Ask in plain English |
| Manually find bundle ID, team ID | Auto-detected from Xcode |
| Copy/paste config templates | Generated and customized for you |
| Debug cryptic Ruby errors | Guided troubleshooting |
| Learn Fastlane syntax | Just describe what you want |

**Key benefits:**
- **Zero learning curve** - No Fastlane expertise required
- **Smart introspection** - Reads your Xcode project, not you
- **Best practices built-in** - Homebrew install, proper lane structure
- **Conversational setup** - Iterate and adjust through chat

> **Note:** Currently tested for iOS/macOS targets. Android support coming soon.

## Prerequisites

- macOS with Xcode CLI tools
- [Homebrew](https://brew.sh)
- Fastlane: `brew install fastlane`

## Installation

```
/plugin marketplace add greenstevester/fastlane-skill
```
Restart Claude Code.

**Verify:** Ask Claude "What Fastlane skills do you have?"

## Usage

Navigate to your iOS/macOS project and ask Claude naturally:

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                            App Release Workflow                             │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

  ┌──────────┐    ┌──────────┐    ┌──────────┐    ┌──────────┐    ┌──────────┐
  │  SETUP   │───▶│  CERTS   │───▶│  SCREENS │───▶│   BETA   │───▶│ RELEASE  │
  └──────────┘    └──────────┘    └──────────┘    └──────────┘    └──────────┘
       │               │               │               │               │
       ▼               ▼               ▼               ▼               ▼
  "Set up         "Set up Match    "Automate       "Upload to      "Submit to
   Fastlane"       for code         App Store       TestFlight"     the App
                   signing"         screenshots"                    Store"
```

| Step | What Claude Does |
|------|------------------|
| **Setup** | Creates `Appfile`, `Fastfile`, lanes from your Xcode project |
| **Certs** | Configures Match for team certificate sharing via private Git repo |
| **Screens** | Sets up Snapshot for automated screenshots across devices/languages |
| **Beta** | Syncs certs, increments build, builds, uploads to TestFlight |
| **Release** | Submits your tested TestFlight build for App Store review |

## What You Get

| Skill | What It Does | Time Saved | Docs |
|-------|-------------|------------|------|
| `setup-fastlane` | Complete Fastlane config from Xcode project | 2-3 hours | [→](skills/setup-fastlane/SKILL.md) |
| `beta` | One command TestFlight uploads | 30 min/release | [→](skills/beta/SKILL.md) |
| `release` | App Store submission workflow | 1 hour | [→](skills/release/SKILL.md) |
| `match` | Team code signing setup | 4-6 hours | [→](skills/match/SKILL.md) |
| `snapshot` | Automated screenshots (50+ images) | 3-4 hours | [→](skills/snapshot/SKILL.md) |

## After Setup

**Fastlane** (obviously from its name) has a concept of **lanes**—automated workflows defined in your `Fastfile`. Each lane bundles multiple actions into a single command:

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  Lane: "beta"                                                   │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  ┌─────────┐   ┌─────────┐   ┌─────────┐   ┌─────────┐        │
│  │  sync   │──▶│increment│──▶│  build  │──▶│ upload  │        │
│  │  certs  │   │ version │   │   app   │   │TestFlight│       │
│  └─────────┘   └─────────┘   └─────────┘   └─────────┘        │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                              ▲
                              │
                    fastlane ios beta   ◀── One command runs all steps
```

**Run your lanes:**
```bash
fastlane lanes              # See all available lanes
fastlane ios test           # Run tests
fastlane ios beta           # Upload to TestFlight
fastlane ios release        # Submit to App Store
```

**Manage metadata:**
```bash
fastlane deliver download_metadata
fastlane deliver download_screenshots
```

## Update

```
/plugin marketplace update fastlane-skill
```

## Troubleshooting

| Issue | Fix |
|-------|-----|
| Skills not loading | Restart Claude Code after install |
| No Xcode project | Run from directory with `.xcodeproj` or `.xcworkspace` |
| Code signing errors | Ask Claude: "Set up Match for code signing" |

## Local Development

```bash
claude --plugin-dir /path/to/fastlane-skill
```

## License

MIT - [github.com/greenstevester/fastlane-skill](https://github.com/greenstevester/fastlane-skill)
